[Term Entry] Python:NumPy Math Methods round (#4743)
Codecademy/docs: content/numpy/concepts/math-methods/terms/round/round.md

---
Title: 'NumPy.round()' 
Description: 'Rounds a number or an array of numbers to a specified number of decimal places.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'NumPy'
  - 'Math'

>   - 'Arrays' 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Arrays'
```

  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

`Numpy.round()` is a function from the NumPy Python library. `NumPy.round()` rounds a number or an array of numbers to a specified number of decimal places.

## Syntax

```psuedo
numpy.round(array/number, decimal place, out)
```

- `array/number` is the number or array, whose elements (either a float or integer) will be rounded. 
- `decimal place` is the number of decimal places the number or elements in the array will be rounded to. The defualt value is 0. This parameter is optional and will accept negative integers as well as positive ones. 
- `Out` is an optional output array which the result will feed into. 

> **Note:** Numpy is commonly imported as `import nympy as np`. This allows us to refer to `numpy` as `np`. 
> 
> **Note:** `numpy.round()` will return an array without commas seperating the elements. To see the output with commas use [`.repr()`](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/repr/repr.md).
>
> **Note:** `numpy.round()` will round to the nearest even number when exactly halfway between two numbers. 

> ## Example 1 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 1
```

`np.round()` returns 0 decimal places by default

```py
import numpy as np

number = 5.64

rounded_number = np.round(number)

print(rounded_number)

```
Output: 
```shell
6.0
```
## Example 2

`numpy.round()` accepts arrays as a parameter and will return the elements of the array rounded. 

```py
import numpy 

array_unrounded = [4.734, 3.141, 9.567]

array_rounded = numpy.round(array_unrounded)

print(array_rounded)
```

> Output: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output:
```

```shell
[5. 3. 10.]

> ```

Reviewer: Give a line break between the Output and shell

## Example 3

`np.round()` accepts an array, float or integer as it's first and only required parameter. It also accepts a second integer to indicate the decimal place.

```py
import numpy as np

unrounded_list = [4.5674, 19.3455, 56.3946]

rounded_list = np.round(unrounded_list, 2)

print(repr(rounded_list))
```

> Output: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Output:
```

```shell
[4.57, 19.35, 56.39]

> ```

Reviewer: Give a line break between the Output and shell

> ## Example 4 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 4
```

`np.round()` can accept a negative integer as its second parameter.

```py
import numpy as np

unrounded_list = [10345.65, 75693.93, 24333.45]

rounded_list = np.round(unrounded_list, -3)

print(rounded_list)
```
Output:
```shell
 [10000. 76000. 24000.]
 ```

## Example 5

> `np.round()` will round to the nearest even number. When exactly halfway between two numbers.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`np.round()` will round to the nearest even number. When exactly halfway between two numbers.
```

---
Title: '.round()' 
Description: 'Rounds a number or an array of numbers to a specified number of decimal places.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'NumPy'
  - 'Math'
  - 'Arrays'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
  - 'paths/data-science'
  - 'paths/data-science-foundations'
---

> **`.round()`** is a function from the NumPy Python library. It rounds a number or an array of numbers to a specified number of decimal places.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the NumPy library, the **`.round()`** method rounds a number or an array of numbers to a specified number of decimal places.
```

Reviewer 2: reframed the sentence to start with "In"

## Syntax

```psuedo

> numpy.round(array/number, decimal place, out)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
numpy.round(array, decimals=0, out=None)
```

```

> - `array/number` is the number or array, whose elements (either a float or integer) will be rounded.
> - `decimal place` is the number of decimal places the number or elements in the array will be rounded to. The default value is 0. This parameter is optional and will accept negative integers as well as positive ones.
> - `out` is an optional output array which the result will feed into.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `array`: Represents either a single number or an array of numbers. Each element, whether a float or integer, will be rounded.
- `decimal`: Optional parameter that specifies the number of decimal places to which the numbers or elements in the array will be rounded. The default value is 0, and it accepts both positive and negative integers.
- `out`: Optional parameter that allows specifying an output array where the rounded results will be stored. If not provided, a new array will be created to store the rounded values.
```

> > **Note:** Numpy is commonly imported as `import numpy as np`. This allows us to refer to `numpy` as `np`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: This note is not needed, it can be removed since it is covered in the concept entry of numpy

> 

> > **Note:** `numpy.round()` will return an array without commas separating the elements. To see the output with commas use [`.repr()`](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/repr/repr.md).

Reviewer 2: This can be added in the introductory paragraph itself which is above the syntax

>

> > **Note:** `numpy.round()` will round to the nearest even number when exactly halfway between two numbers. 

Reviewer 2: This also can be added in the introductory paragraph itself which is above the syntax

> ## Example 1

Reviewer 2: We can have all the example use cases under one ##Example block only, which will be accompanied by one ```shell ``` block. Use comments to explain the codes (use cases)

```py
import numpy as np

unrounded_list = [4.5674, 19.3455, 56.3946]

rounded_list = np.round(unrounded_list, 2)

print(repr(rounded_list))
```

Output:

```shell
[4.57, 19.35, 56.39]
```

## Example 4

`np.round()` can accept a negative integer as its second parameter.

```py
import numpy as np

unrounded_list = [10345.65, 75693.93, 24333.45]

rounded_list = np.round(unrounded_list, -3)

print(rounded_list)
```

Output:

```shell
[10000. 76000. 24000.]
 ```

## Example 5

`np.round()` will round to the nearest even number. When exactly halfway between two numbers.

```py
import numpy as np

unrounded_list = [2.5, 1.5, 3.55]

rounded_list = np.round(unrounded_list)

print(rounded_list)
```

Output:

```shell
[2. 2. 4]
```

## Example 6

`np.round()` accepts a third optional parameter. This parameter is where the output of `np.round()` will go. 

```py
import numpy as np

unrounded = np.array([5.432, 19.846, 13.267])

rounded = np.empty_like(unrounded)

np.round(unrounded, 1, rounded)

print(rounded)
```

Output:

```shell
[ 5.4 19.8 13.3]

> ```

Reviewer 2: At the end, please add a ##Codebyte Example, it need not have a ```shell``` block after it
